RHDEVDOCS-3358 - new content for dex and keycloak (#39282)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-logging-into-keycloak.adoc

[id="logging-into-keycloak_{context}"]
= Logging into Keycloak

.Procedure

> 

Reviewer: Possible introduction: 

`Logging into Keycloak gives you access to <state benefits or features of Keycloak>.`

Reviewer 2: If you rewrite the introduction as I indicate above, I don't think an introduction here would be necessary.

> . After creating the Argo CD instance, login into the keycloak console.

Reviewer: Capitalize Keycloak Console since you capitalized `Keycloak Pod.` 

Be consistent with capitalizations throughout.

> . After creating the Argo CD instance, login into the keycloak console.

Reviewer: Since all your other procedure steps begin with an action verb, I would use that same sentence construction here so that you are consistent. 

So consider rephrasing to something like, 
`Log into the Keycloak Console after creating the Argo CD instance: <snippet>.`

Reviewer: Note, use `log into` when it's a verb/action the user takes. 

Use `login` when it's a noun. Like, `Select the `login` button.`

+
[source,yaml]
----
kubectl -n argocd get route keycloak

NAME   HOST/PORT                                                                PATH   SERVICES   PORT    TERMINATION   WILDCARD
keycloak    keycloak-default.apps.ci-ln-******.origin-ci-int-aws.dev.**.com          keycloak        <all>   reencrypt     None
----

> . Get the Keycloak credentials which is stored as environment variables in the keycloak pod.

Reviewer: Once again, you capitalized `Keycloak Pod` earlier, so please do so here. 

Unless there's a difference between Keycloak Pod and keycloak pod?

+
[source,yaml]
----
  kubectl -n argocd get pods

  NAME                                         READY   STATUS             RESTARTS   AGE
  keycloak-1-2sjcl                                  1/1     Running            0          45m
----
. Get the Keycloak username.
+
[source,yaml]
----
  kubectl -n argocd exec keycloak-1-2sjcl -- "env" | grep SSO_ADMIN_USERNAME

SSO_ADMIN_USERNAME=Cqid54Ih
----
. Get the Keycloak password.
+
[source,yaml]
----
  kubectl -n argocd exec keycloak-1-2sjcl -- "env" | grep SSO_ADMIN_PASSWORD

SSO_ADMIN_PASSWORD=GVXxHifH
----

> . Enter the keycloak username and password. Click *Log in*.

Reviewer: If the UI displays it as **Log in** keep it that way. But confirm it's not displayed as **Login**.

[NOTE]
====

> Keycloak instance takes 2-3 minutes to be up and running. You will see the option *LOGIN VIA KEYCLOAK* only after the keycloak instance is up.

Reviewer: `up and running` is a little colloquial and might be misunderstood. What do you think about a rewrite, something like this:

`The Keycloak instance takes 2-3 minutes to install and run.` or `The Keycloak instance takes 2-3 minutes to run successfully.` 

Also, consider removing the future verb tense in the second sentence. Maybe rephrase to something like this: 

`You only see the option **LOGIN VIA KEYCLOAK** after the keycloak instance is installed.`

====

> By default any user logged into Argo CD will have read-only access. You can manage the user level access by updating the `argocd-rbac-cm` configmap.

Reviewer: Missing comma and avoid future tense when possible (though future tense does read fine here):

By default, any user logged into Argo CD has read-only access.`

[id="logging-into-keycloak_{context}"]
= Logging into Keycloak

Logging into Keycloak gives you access to identity and access management.

.Procedure

. Log into the Keycloak Console after creating the Argo CD instance:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kubectl -n argocd get route keycloak

NAME   HOST/PORT                                                                PATH   SERVICES   PORT    TERMINATION   WILDCARD
keycloak    keycloak-default.apps.ci-ln-******.origin-ci-int-aws.dev.**.com          keycloak        <all>   reencrypt     None
----

> . Get the Keycloak credentials which is stored as environment variables in the Keycloak pod.

Reviewer: Colon at the end of this step.

+
[source,yaml]
----
  kubectl -n argocd get pods

  NAME                                         READY   STATUS             RESTARTS   AGE
  keycloak-1-2sjcl                                  1/1     Running            0          45m
----
. Get the Keycloak username.
+
[source,yaml]
----
  kubectl -n argocd exec keycloak-1-2sjcl -- "env" | grep SSO_ADMIN_USERNAME

SSO_ADMIN_USERNAME=Cqid54Ih
----
. Get the Keycloak password.
+
[source,yaml]
----
  kubectl -n argocd exec keycloak-1-2sjcl -- "env" | grep SSO_ADMIN_PASSWORD

SSO_ADMIN_PASSWORD=GVXxHifH
----
. Enter the Keycloak username and password. Click *Log in*.

[NOTE]
====

> The Keycloak instance takes 2-3 minutes to install and run. You only see the option *LOGIN VIA KEYCLOAK* after the keycloak instance is up.

Reviewer: Capitalize Keycloak at the end: `...after the Keycloak instance is up.`

====

> By default, any user logged into Argo CD has read-only access. You can manage the user level access by updating the `argocd-rbac-cm` configmap.

Reviewer: I would put a colon at the end of this sentence since it precedes a code snippet.

`...the argocd-rbac-cm configmap:`

[id="gitops-logging-into-keycloak_{context}"]

> = Logging into Keycloak

Reviewer 3: s/logging into/Logging in to

> By logging in to the Keycloak console after configuring the Argo CD instance, you can manage identities or roles and define the permissions assigned to the various roles.

Reviewer 3: configuring the Argo CD instance must be mentioned as prereq as suggested below. Suggest rewording this to: Log in to the Keycloak console to manage identities or roles and define the permissions assigned to the various roles

> 

Reviewer 3: For this procedure it is essential that you have removed the default configuration of Dex and added the Keycloak configuration. Hence it must be captured as a prerequisite.
Your Argo CD CR must be configured to use the Keycloak SSO provider.

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n argocd get route keycloak

NAME        HOST/PORT                                                        PATH   SERVICES   PORT    TERMINATION   WILDCARD
keycloak    keycloak-default.apps.ci-ln-******.origin-ci-int-aws.dev.**.com         keycloak   <all>    reencrypt     None
----
. Get the Keycloak pod name that stores the user name and password as environment variables:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n argocd get pods

NAME                      READY   STATUS           RESTARTS   AGE
keycloak-1-2sjcl           1/1    Running            0        45m
----
.. Get the Keycloak user name:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n argocd exec keycloak-1-2sjcl -- "env" | grep SSO_ADMIN_USERNAME

SSO_ADMIN_USERNAME=Cqid54Ih
----
.. Get the Keycloak password:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n argocd exec keycloak-1-2sjcl -- "env" | grep SSO_ADMIN_PASSWORD

SSO_ADMIN_PASSWORD=GVXxHifH
----
. On the login page, click *LOG IN VIA KEYCLOAK*.
+
[NOTE]
====
You only see the option *LOGIN VIA KEYCLOAK* after the Keycloak instance is ready.
====
. Click *Login with OpenShift*.
. Enter the OpenShift credentials to log in.
+
[NOTE]
====
Login using `kubeadmin` is not supported.

> ====

Reviewer 3: This note seems apt after the previous step: Click *Login with OpenShift*.
It explains why the user should not click Login using `kubeadmin`

+

> . Optional: By default, any user logged into Argo CD has read-only access. You can manage the user level access by updating the `argocd-rbac-cm` configmap:

Reviewer 3: logged in to
config map (two words)

> 

Reviewer 3: Add a '+' above to align the code block to the step.

> [id="logging-into-keycloak_{context}"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[id="gitops-logging-into-keycloak_{context}"]
```
The `id` value needs to be the same as the filename per the OCP docs guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#module-file-metadata

= Logging into Keycloak

> Log in to the Keycloak console after configuring the Argo CD instance to manage identities or roles and access provided to the various roles. To log in, first you have to get the Keycloak admin username and password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By logging in to the Keycloak console after configuring the Argo CD instance, you can manage identities or roles and define the permissions assigned to the various roles. To log in, 

.Prerequisites
* Obtain the Keycloak admin user name and password.
```
- The first sentence is awkward and maybe trying to say too much. Consider an edit similar to the one I suggest above.
- `user name` is two words unless referring to a command or a UI element

.Procedure

> . Get the Keycloak Route URL for Login:

Reviewer 2: Check the capitalization here. Is `Route URL for Login` referring to a UI element? Or a value in a file somewhere?

+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,terminal]
```

----
$ oc -n argocd get route keycloak

NAME        HOST/PORT                                                        PATH   SERVICES   PORT    TERMINATION   WILDCARD
keycloak    keycloak-default.apps.ci-ln-******.origin-ci-int-aws.dev.**.com         keycloak   <all>    reencrypt     None
----

> . Get the Keycloak pod name which stores the username and password as environment variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Get the Keycloak pod name that stores the user name and password as environment variables:
```
Per the IBM SG: 'Use "that", without a comma, to introduce a restrictive clause. Use "which", preceded by a comma, to introduce a nonrestrictive clause.'

+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,terminal]
```

----
$ oc -n argocd get pods

NAME                      READY   STATUS           RESTARTS   AGE
keycloak-1-2sjcl           1/1    Running            0        45m
----

> .. Get the Keycloak username:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Get the Keycloak user name:
```

+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,terminal]
```

----
$ oc -n argocd exec keycloak-1-2sjcl -- "env" | grep SSO_ADMIN_USERNAME

SSO_ADMIN_USERNAME=Cqid54Ih
----
.. Get the Keycloak password:
+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,terminal]
```

----
$ oc -n argocd exec keycloak-1-2sjcl -- "env" | grep SSO_ADMIN_PASSWORD

SSO_ADMIN_PASSWORD=GVXxHifH
----

> . In the login screen, click *LOG IN VIA KEYCLOAK*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. On the login screen, click *LOG IN VIA KEYCLOAK*.
```
